# mPile Module (Multi-Snakemake)
This directory contains the mPile module. It is a multi-module system. The modules differ in their ability 
to process '.BAM' files at a per chromosome granularity. The option of chromosomal granularity is not made
within this rule, but rather, it is made by the manner in which this rule is called. The rule which calls
mPile will call with or without chromosomal resolution.

## Modules:
See individual files for expanded explanations of their purpose and the manner in which they accomplish it.
* mPileSPLIT: Produce a '.mpileup' file from a '.BAM' file, processed by chromosome.
* mPileUNSPLIT: Produce a '.mpileup' file from a '.BAM' file.
* **mPile_INCLUDE: Master file which includes both modules above.**

## Logging:
Will be stored in: "log/mPile"

## Global Directories:
* inputDIR = Directory to contain all files prior to starting pipeline. 
* refDIR = Directory to contain the reference genome file.
* outputDIR = Directory to contain all file generated by the pipeline
* bamDIR = Directory to contain the '.BAM' files.
* mpileDIR = Directory to contain the '.mpilup' file.

## Global Paramters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | refFILE | GRCh37-lite.fa | Name of the reference genome file in the refDIR directory.
mPileSPLIT | chrLIST | ['chr1', ... 'chrY'] OR ['1', ... 'Y'] | List of organism (Human or Mouse) and format (NCBI or UCS) specific chromosomes

## Module Specific Paramters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | bitFLAG | 512 | Bitwise flag
All | countORPHAN | -A | Count orphan reads
All | noBAQ | -B | BAQ computation
All | maxDEP | -d 10000000 | Maximum read depth
All | mapQUAL | -q 20 | Minimum quality of reads to be used.
All | bedFILE | '' | Sets the target region to call variants (Bed File Format). Use '-l ' + bedFILE name.
