# fastqGen Module

## Logging:
Will be stored in: "log/bamGen"

## Modules:
See invidual files for expanded explanations of their purpose and the manner in which they accomplish it.
* bam2fastq_picard: Generate read-directed '.fastq' files from a '.bam' file.
* **fastqGen_INCLUDE: Master file which includes the modules above.**

## Control Flags:
None

## Global Directories:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
None | bamDIR | bam | Directory to conatin the processed, symlinked, and name-normalized '.bam' and '.BAI' files.
All | inputDIR | input | Directory to contain all files prior to starting pipeline (Reference and input files).
All | fastqDIR | fastq | Directory to contain the processed '.fastq' files.
None | metricsDIR | metrics | Directory to contain the processed '.metrics' files.
None | mpileupDIR | mpileup | Directory to contain the processed '.mpileup' files.
All | outputDIR | output | Directory to contain all files generated by the pipeline.

## Global Parameters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | shellCallFile | shellCalls.txt | File to which a copy of all shell calls is printed.
All | offCluster | False | Adds input redirection to end of shell calls as to capture STDERR when not on cluster.
All | fastqKEEP | False | Flag of 'True' or 'False' on retaining '.fastq' files after they are used in the pipeline.
None | inputPartList | inputPartList.txt | List containing the parts which comprise each sample.
None | refFILE | *Varies* | Absolute path to genomic reference file.
None | supportRefFILE | *Varies* | Absolute path to supporting genomic references files.
None | chrLIST | *Varies* | Full chromosomal list parse from one of the supporting genomic reference files.

## Module Specific Software:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | fastqGen_samtoolsProg | samtools | Program path.
All | fastqGen_picardProg | picard | Program path.

## Module Specific Parameters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | rawBamDIR | rawBam | Directory to contain the original '.bam' files.
All | fastqGenDIR | fastqGen | Directory to contain the log files.
ALL | fastqGen_picardMaxRec | MAX_RECORDS_IN_RAM=5000000 | Specify the number of records stored in RAM before spilling to disk.
ALL | fastqGen_picardValStringency | VALIDATION_STRINGENCY=LENIENT | Validation stringency for all SAM files read by this program.
ALL | fastqGen_fastqGen_samtoolsSortMem | 4000000000 | Samtools sort memory allocation of SAM file prior to conversion to ".fastq" format. ** MUST BE REPRESENTED AS AN INTEGER! (NOT 4GB) **
