# genericUtil Module

## Logging:
Will be stored in: "log/genericUtil""

## Modules:
See individual files for expanded explanations of their purpose and the manner in which they accomplish it.
* tableMERGE: Merge together '.txt' tables, copying the header line of the first. 
* **genericUtil_INCLUDE: Master file which includes the modules above.

## Control Flags
None

## Global Directories:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
None | bamDIR | bam | Directory to conatin the processed, symlinked, and name-normalized '.bam' and '.BAI' files.
None | inputDIR | input | Directory to contain all files prior to starting pipeline (Reference and input files).
None | fastqDIR | fastq | Directory to contain the processed '.fastq' files.
None | metricsDIR | metrics | Directory to contain the processed '.metrics' files.
None | mpileupDIR | mpileup | Directory to contain the processed '.mpileup' files.
All | outputDIR | output | Directory to contain all file generated by the pipeline.

## Global Parameters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | shellCallFile | shellCalls.txt | File to which a copy of all shell calls is printed.
All | offCluster | False | Adds input redirection to end of shell calls as to capture STDERR when not on cluster.
None | fastqKEEP | False | Flag of 'True' or 'False' on retaining '.fastq' files after they are used in the pipeline.
None | inputPartList | inputPartList.txt | List containing the parts which comprise each sample.
None | refFILE | *Varies* | Absolute path to genomic reference file.
None | supportRefFILE | *Varies* | Absolute path to supporting genomic references files.
None | chrLIST | *Varies* | Full chromosomal list parse from one of the supporting genomic reference files.

## Module Specific Software
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------

## Module Specific Paramters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------- | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | genericUtilDIR | genericUtil | Directory to store logging files.
All | outputMergeLocation | vcfGenUtil_varScan/tables | Location in which the merging of tables can occurr.
