# fastqUtil Module

## Logging:
Will be stored in: "log/fastqUtil"

## Modules:
 * mergeFASTQ_ADAPTOR: Produce a single '.fastq' file from a list of '.fastq' files.
 * fastqc: Run perl QC script and convert a '.bam' file into a '.fastq.zip'
 * fastq2GZ: Compress a '.fastq' file into a '.fastq.gz' file.
* **fastqUtil_INCLUDE: Master file which includes both modules above.**

## Control Flags:
None

## Global Directories:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
None | bamDIR | bam | Directory to conatin the processed, symlinked, and name-normalized '.bam' and '.BAI' files.
None | inputDIR | input | Directory to contain all files prior to starting pipeline (Reference and input files).
All | fastqDIR | fastq | Directory to contain the processed '.fastq' files.
None | metricsDIR | metrics | Directory to contain the processed '.metrics' files.
None | mpileupDIR | mpileup | Directory to contain the processed '.mpileup' files.
All | outputDIR | output | Directory to contain all files generated by the pipeline.

## Global Parameters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | shellCallFile | shellCalls.txt | File to which a copy of all shell calls is printed.
All | offCluster | False | Adds input redirection to end of shell calls as to capture STDERR when not on cluster.
fastq2GZ | fastqKEEP | False | Flag of 'True' or 'False' on retaining '.fastq' files after they are used in the pipeline.
None | inputPartList | inputPartList.txt | List containing the parts which comprise each sample.
None | refFILE | *Varies* | Absolute path to genomic reference file.
None | supportRefFILE | *Varies* | Absolute path to supporting genomic references files.
None | chrLIST | *Varies* | Full chromosomal list parse from one of the supporting genomic reference files.

## Module Specific Software:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
fastqc | fastqUtil_perlProg | perl | Program path.

## Module Specific Paramters:
Submodule | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
ALL | fastqUtilDIR | fastqUtil | Directory to store log files for submodules.
fastqc | fasqtc | /genesis/clc/usr/fastqc-0.10.1/fastqc.pl | Perl Fastqc script to process a '.bam' file.
fastqc | nogroup | '' | Groups fastqc output based on certian inputs, alternatively set to: "--no-group"
fastqc | fastqcDIR | fastqc | Directory to store output files for this submodule.
mergeFASTQ_ADAPTOR | inputPartList | inputPartList.txt | Two column file, sampleName samplePart, of the sets of files to be merged.

### mergeFASTQ_ADAPTOR -- inputPartList.txt Formatting:
The file requires specific column headers. Otherwise, the file should look similiar to below:
```
groupName fileName
Pfeiffer2 Part1-Pfeiffer2
Pfeiffer2 Part2-Pfeiffer2
Pfeiffer2 Part3-Pfeiffer2
Pfeiffer2 Part4-Pfeiffer2
Pfeiffer3 Part1-Pfeiffer3
Pfeiffer3 Part2-Pfeiffer3
Pfeiffer3 Part3-Pfeiffer3
```
