# tPileUp Module (Variabe Snakemake Tutorial)
This directory contains the tPile module. It is a **variable module tutorial system**. These files can be 
uses as reference when following multiple module tutorials.

## Modules:
See individual files for expanded explanations of their purpose and the manner in which they accomplish it.
* **tPile_INCLUDE: Produce a '.mpileup' file from a '.BAM' file.**

## Logging:
Will be stored in: "log/tPile"

## Global Directories:
* inputDIR = Directory to contain all files prior to starting pipeline. 
* refDIR = Directory to contain the reference genome file.
* outputDIR = Directory to contain all file generated by the pipeline
* bamDIR = Directory to contain the '.BAM' files.
* tpileDIR = Directory to contain the '.mpilup' file.

## Global Paramters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | refFILE | GRCh37-lite.fa | Name of the reference genome file in the refDIR directory.
mPileSPLIT | chrLIST | ['chr1', 'chr2', 'chr3', 'chr4', 'chr5', 'chr6', 'chr7', 'chr8', 'chr9', 'chr10', 'chr11', 'chr12', 'chr13', 'chr14', 'chr15', 'chr16', 'chr17', 'chr18', 'chr19', 'chr20', 'chr21', 'chr22', 'chrM', 'chrX', 'chrY'] | List of human chromosomes

## Module Specific Paramters:
Module | Argument | Default Value | Description
:--------: | :--------: | :--------: | :--------
All | bitFLAG | 512 | Bitwise flag
All | countORPHAN | -A | Count orphan reads
All | noBAQ | -B | BAQ computation
All | maxDEP | -q 10000000 | Maximum read depth
All | mapQUAL | -d 20 | Minimum quality of reads to be used.

